README.md, before:

# code-snippets
This repository gathers diverse tiny challenges I encountered on YouTube, Facebook, Twitter (or other social media) that I found interesting enough to share

## 0001 - Micmaths 9-digit enigma

Mickaël Launay alias Micmaths is a French 250K-subscriber YouTuber. As his channel is now 10 years old, he decided to organize a YouTube Live in November 2017. During this live, he challenged us with an enigma: find the only solution to `42 x _ _ _ = _ _ _ _` so that each `_` is a digit and digits from 1 to 9 should appear only once in the equation. Here's the link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vYa930zDtz4&t=13m
- Finding the solution to this enigma was actually pretty easy because as 2 and 4 are already taken, we naively try out `42 * 135` then `42 * 136` then `42 * 137` and finally we find after 4 attempts that `42 * 138` is the solution, without actually thinking about the problem in detail. I still decided to implement a naive implementation of the solution to this enigma by also looking for other starting numbers than just `42`
- Note: I'm aware that my solution is pretty naive as it doesn't apply basic mathematics rules like multiples (e.g. if 2 is taken and is the last digit of the first number then there is no point in multiplying that first number by a second number that ends with 6, because `2 * 6 = 12` (same ending digit))

## 0002 - The perfect city

Codefights is an interesting website with challenges to solve so that recruiters can later connect with you if you get a good score. Once you submit your code, it is tested against several known and unknown tests to check if it handles all possible cases.
On this website I encountered the following challenge under the `Uber Bot` category:
- consider a city that is a perfect infinite square grid, hence each road can be represented as straight lines defined by `x = n` or `y = n` where `n` is an integer
- a car is going from point A to point B and the goal of the challenge is to determine the length of the shortest path between these two points
  - let's say the departure point (A) is `[0.4, 1]` and the destination point (B) is `[0.9, 3]` then the output should be `2.7` as visible on the diagram below
- Note: in the challenge, it was guaranteed that every coordinate is positive. Also, it is easy to notice that in a `[x ; y]` couple of coordinates, at least one of the two coordinates is an integer (otherwise, the car would be off the road)

### Diagram

- A: `[0.4, 1]`
- B: `[0.9, 3]`
- The length of the shortest path, drawn as `#`, is: `2 [y-axis] + 0.6 [corresponding to 1 - 0.4 for A] + 0.1 [corresponding to 1 - 0.9 for B]` = `2.7`

```
 ...                    ...
3 +----B##------+------+
  |      #      |      |
  |      #      |      |
2 +------#------+------+
  |      #      |      |
  |      #      |      |
1 +--A####------+------+
  |      |      |      |
  |      |      |      |
0 +------+------+------+ ...
  0 0.4  1      2      3
```

## 0003 - Operator-based search-engine (Work In Progress)

### Context

I love listening to music, especially on YouTube because I can find good fan-made songs. As my favorite kind of music is rap, everytime I find a good rap song I add it to a playlist. This playlist has now over 250 songs. Sometimes I'm in the mood for French songs but not English ones, sometimes it's the opposite. Sometimes I'm in the mood for certain specific artists but I'd like to exclude diss songs because the context might not be appropriate for example.

So I came up with an idea: I'd love to have a system that enables me to write a specific query that gets applied to my 250+ song playlist (the input) in order to give the matching results as an output, based on tags. I could for example execute the following query: `eminem OR tupac AND NOT diss_song`.
- Note: such a system could be applied to a lot of domains beyond music (movies, TV shows, pictures, job postings, etc.) as long as the individual elements get correctly tagged beforehand

### Implementation

#### Existing state

- The proof of concept of such a search engine that I coded in Python handles the following operators:
  - Unary operators
    - `NOT` (e.g. `NOT diss_song` in order to exclude diss songs)
  - Binary operators
    - `AND` (e.g. `eminem AND tupac` in order to get songs featuring both Eminem and Tupac)
    - `OR` (e.g. `eminem OR tupac` in order to get both songs by Eminem and songs by Tupac)
	- `XOR` (e.g. `eminem XOR tupac` in order to get both songs by Eminem and songs by Tupac, by excluding songs featuring both of them though)
  - Others
	- `ALL` (e.g. `ALL` in order to get all the songs from the playlist)
- It is also possible to only type a label (e.g. `eminem` in order to get songs by Eminem)

In order to check this search engine is correctly implemented, I added tests at the end of it with expected results. Everything should be `True`.
	
#### Future state (not implemented yet)

- The search engine is really limited for now.
  - Some operators are still missing: `NAND`, `NOR`, `XNOR`
  - It should be possible to execute more complex queries including more than just two labels (e.g. `eminem AND tupac AND nekfeu`)
  - It should also be possible to use parentheses (`(` and `)`) in order to give a certain priority.
- In the long-term, a nested query like `NOT (eminem AND (tupac OR snoop_dogg))` should be correct

Commit message:

feat: add NAND, NOR, XNOR operators

README.md, after:

# code-snippets
This repository gathers diverse tiny challenges I encountered on YouTube, Facebook, Twitter (or other social media) that I found interesting enough to share

## 0001 - Micmaths 9-digit enigma

Mickaël Launay alias Micmaths is a French 250K-subscriber YouTuber. As his channel is now 10 years old, he decided to organize a YouTube Live in November 2017. During this live, he challenged us with an enigma: find the only solution to `42 x _ _ _ = _ _ _ _` so that each `_` is a digit and digits from 1 to 9 should appear only once in the equation. Here's the link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vYa930zDtz4&t=13m
- Finding the solution to this enigma was actually pretty easy because as 2 and 4 are already taken, we naively try out `42 * 135` then `42 * 136` then `42 * 137` and finally we find after 4 attempts that `42 * 138` is the solution, without actually thinking about the problem in detail. I still decided to implement a naive implementation of the solution to this enigma by also looking for other starting numbers than just `42`
- Note: I'm aware that my solution is pretty naive as it doesn't apply basic mathematics rules like multiples (e.g. if 2 is taken and is the last digit of the first number then there is no point in multiplying that first number by a second number that ends with 6, because `2 * 6 = 12` (same ending digit))

## 0002 - The perfect city

Codefights is an interesting website with challenges to solve so that recruiters can later connect with you if you get a good score. Once you submit your code, it is tested against several known and unknown tests to check if it handles all possible cases.
On this website I encountered the following challenge under the `Uber Bot` category:
- consider a city that is a perfect infinite square grid, hence each road can be represented as straight lines defined by `x = n` or `y = n` where `n` is an integer
- a car is going from point A to point B and the goal of the challenge is to determine the length of the shortest path between these two points
  - let's say the departure point (A) is `[0.4, 1]` and the destination point (B) is `[0.9, 3]` then the output should be `2.7` as visible on the diagram below
- Note: in the challenge, it was guaranteed that every coordinate is positive. Also, it is easy to notice that in a `[x ; y]` couple of coordinates, at least one of the two coordinates is an integer (otherwise, the car would be off the road)

### Diagram

- A: `[0.4, 1]`
- B: `[0.9, 3]`
- The length of the shortest path, drawn as `#`, is: `2 [y-axis] + 0.6 [corresponding to 1 - 0.4 for A] + 0.1 [corresponding to 1 - 0.9 for B]` = `2.7`

```
 ...                    ...
3 +----B##------+------+
  |      #      |      |
  |      #      |      |
2 +------#------+------+
  |      #      |      |
  |      #      |      |
1 +--A####------+------+
  |      |      |      |
  |      |      |      |
0 +------+------+------+ ...
  0 0.4  1      2      3
```

## 0003 - Operator-based search-engine (Work In Progress)

### Context

I love listening to music, especially on YouTube because I can find good fan-made songs. As my favorite kind of music is rap, everytime I find a good rap song I add it to a playlist. This playlist has now over 250 songs. Sometimes I'm in the mood for French songs but not English ones, sometimes it's the opposite. Sometimes I'm in the mood for certain specific artists but I'd like to exclude diss songs because the context might not be appropriate for example.

So I came up with an idea: I'd love to have a system that enables me to write a specific query that gets applied to my 250+ song playlist (the input) in order to give the matching results as an output, based on tags. I could for example execute the following query: `eminem OR tupac AND NOT diss_song`.
- Note: such a system could be applied to a lot of domains beyond music (movies, TV shows, pictures, job postings, etc.) as long as the individual elements get correctly tagged beforehand

### Implementation

#### Existing state

- The proof of concept of such a search engine that I coded in Python handles the following operators:
  - Unary operators
    - `NOT` (e.g. `NOT diss_song` in order to exclude diss songs)
  - Binary operators
    - `AND` (e.g. `eminem AND tupac` in order to get songs featuring both Eminem and Tupac)
    - `OR` (e.g. `eminem OR tupac` in order to get both songs by Eminem and songs by Tupac)
	- `XOR` (e.g. `eminem XOR tupac` in order to get both songs by Eminem and songs by Tupac, by excluding songs featuring both of them though)
	- `NAND` (e.g. `eminem NAND tupac` in order to get songs by Eminem, by excluding songs featuring both of them though)
	- `NOR` (e.g. `eminem NOR tupac` in order to get all possible songs, minus the songs by Tupac except the ones Tupac made with Eminem (these ones are kept)
	- `XNOR` (e.g. `eminem XNOR tupac` in order to get all possible songs, minus the songs by Eminem without Tupac and minus the songs by Tupac without Eminem (i.e. songs featuring both of them are kept))
  - Others
	- `ALL` (e.g. `ALL` in order to get all the songs from the playlist)
- It is also possible to only type a label (e.g. `eminem` in order to get songs by Eminem)

In order to check this search engine is correctly implemented, I added tests at the end of it with expected results. Everything should be `True`.
	
#### Future state (not implemented yet)

- The search engine is really limited for now.
  - It should be possible to execute more complex queries including more than just two labels (e.g. `eminem AND tupac AND nekfeu`)
  - It should also be possible to use parentheses (`(` and `)`) in order to give a certain priority.
- In the long-term, a nested query like `NOT (eminem AND (tupac OR snoop_dogg))` should be correct
